<!-- page 7 -->

## Game Publishing Strategies

## Publisher-Developer Relationships

Game developers and publishers have been at odds for many decades. The former typically focuses on the creative side such as building reliable frameworks, new technology integration, refining gameplay based on user feedback, and creating the overall gameplay experience. Publishers focus on the financial, marketing, and at times on the technical side including distribution, user acquisition, live ops, monetization, and community engagement. These functions have historically functioned independently, ensuring the heavy reliance of both parties on each other.

Digital distribution through online platforms such as Steam and Epic Games Store has lowered or outright obliterated the barriers for developers to selfpublish their games. Steam sold over 718 million games in 2024 alone, while Epic Games Store boasted annual PC user spending of US$950 million in 2023.

However, over the years their relationship has become increasingly complex with developers acquiring more independence due to alternative funding avenues, rapid technological disruptions, and new distribution platforms. Indie developers now often bootstrap their games or raise money through options such as crowdfunding sites like Kickstarter and Fig. Game engines like Unity and Unreal Engine 5 which are intuitive and increasingly simple to use, have also made the development process easier. Moreover, digital distribution through online platforms such as Steam and Epic Games

Store has lowered or outright obliterated the barriers for developers to self-publish their games. Steam sold over 718 million games in 2024 alone, while Epic Games Store boasted annual PC user spending of US$950 million in 2023.

Palworld and Lethal Company are two of the most popular games of 2024, with the former made by a small development team, and the latter by just one individual (a developer known as Zeekerss). It is no longer essential for indie teams to have large development budgets to deliver a hit title, as long as they bet on gameplay innovation.

On the other hand, this growing ease of development and self-publishing has resulted in a crowded gaming market with titles struggling to be discovered and stand out. Therefore, the capabilities of the modern publisher including advanced analytics, support for live-service models, post-launch content planning, and of course large financial resources, make them invaluable, especially for developers with globally recognised IPs. This is because as competition increases, marketing familiar game worlds and characters is emerging as an effective strategy for such titles to stand out. Overall, game titles backed by large budgets remain in an advantageous position in terms of user acquisition.

## Cross-Platform Publishing

According to a 2024 U.S.-focused study by Bain & Co., as many as \(70\%\) of the gamers surveyed said they played on multiple devices and asked for more ubiquity in the future. Another American market study by the Consumer Technology Association (CTA) involving over 2,700 adults and teens, found this number to stand at \(61\%\). The last few years have witnessed robust growth in the number of multiplatform game launches, with gaming company Unity pegging this at around \(40\%\) between 2021 and 2023.