<!-- page 38 -->

## Software and Services

## Publishing as a Service

Over the last few years, the gaming industry has faced many challenges such as high development costs, increasing interest rates, growing consumer expectations, modest growth in overall consumer spending, and a more cautious approach by investors. All these factors mean that developers and publishers are now focusing on optimising production costs while maintaining quality levels. This has required them to adopt a flexible approach, which has made room for companies that operate on a publishing-as-a-service model. These vendors are typically marketing and PR firms that have broadened their scope of offerings to include release management, store-page setup, business development, social media handling, trailer editing, and strategic marketing in addition to the basic functions of marketing and PR. They typically make use of video-game distribution platforms such as Steam, Epic Games Store, and Itch.io, and usually display loyalty towards one of these.

Canadian company Popagenda is a good example of this burgeoning trend. The company is well positioned to offer end-to-end publishing services by virtue of its existing PR-focused

relationships with games such as Cuphead, Grindstone, Landfall, Ooblets, and the Playdate. What stands out in Popagenda's offerings is its focus on release management in which it coordinates with quality assurance teams and porting studios to ship on console and other platforms. Therefore, it takes on a lot of the heavy lifting tasks that were previously dominated by large-scale publishers, without the aggressive cuts that have previously been a part of many developer-publisher deals. This means that developers can get their games published at more or less the same standard as large publishers, and also get to keep a large portion of the revenue pie.

Scotland-based Neonhive is another PR and marketing company that decided to pivot to a publishing-as-a-service model in early 2024. Its first assignments were Villainous Games Studio's Harvest Hunt and Byteparrot's Slopecrashers. According to the agency's founder Korina Abbott, the company is looking to work on all titles except the ones that involve non-fungible tokens (NFTs), web3, or cryptocurrency, along with games that use AI for art, voice work, or sound design. Neonhive also prefers using Steam to distribute games, simply because of its vast experience with the platform.