<!-- page 22 -->

As online games started to become more socially integrated and community-oriented, violations such as bullying, child safety, cheating, and fraud became commonplace, which resulted in the adoption of advanced automated moderation tools which were often powered by artificial intelligence (AI).

## Community Safety

In the 1990s video games moved online from offline, and games such as Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Games (MMORPGs) and First-Person Shooters (FPS), laid the platform for community interaction. Moderation was largely left to the players and in-game administrators, who monitored a few instances of cheating and toxicity.

However, as the scale of these games grew, so did the instances of misconduct and by the late 1990s community managers were hired to manage player behaviour and enforce rules. By the 2000s the emergence of social games and mobile gaming resulted in a sharp increase in rule-breaking, harassment, and other toxic behaviours and studios were forced to implement advanced safety systems such as in-game reporting tools and dedicated moderation teams. By the end of the decade, the moderation function began to be outsourced to Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) providers, which meant only companies with large user bases could afford it.

As online games started to become more socially integrated and community-oriented, violations such as bullying, child safety, cheating, and fraud

became commonplace, which resulted in the adoption of advanced automated moderation tools which were often powered by artificial intelligence (AI).

The emergence of large gaming platforms with millions of players led to the formation of dedicated Player Experience Teams, who act as trust and safety gatekeepers by handling player complaints and enforcing community guidelines. They use AI and machine learning (ML) to analyse large amounts of data, identify issues proactively, recognize patterns of disruptive behaviour in real time, and flag offenders or take automated actions to mitigate harm. Interestingly, these teams also promote prosocial behaviour by rewarding positive acts.

With more games having live multiplayer modes with multimodal inputs, gaming companies are developing automated detection and actioning solutions that minimise latency to offer real-time or near real-time response to violations. These solutions use technologies such as natural language processing (text), image recognition (visuals), and speech-to-text (audio) to create unified systems that regulate not only in-game events but also those taking place in related off-platform communities.