<!-- page 35 -->

## Streaming and media rights is expected to be the fastest growing category

Just as is the case for traditional sports, media rights are a substantial source of revenue for eSports. This category is estimated to be the fastest-growing between 2025 and 2030, with the global market increasing from US\(0.8 billion to US\)2.3 billion, at a CAGR of \(22.6\%\). Platforms such as Twitch, YouTube, and Huya Live allow gaming fans to forge a deeper connection to teams, players and influencers, thereby creating a sense of ownership that is unique compared to other entertainment and sports sectors. Interestingly, traditional media companies are looking to make inroads in the market, as eSports publishers look for audience growth and higher income from rights licensing. For now, though, Twitch and YouTube have capitalized on network effects, built and optimized their infrastructure and ecosystem, and elbowed out most of the competition.

## Merchandising

Merchandise offerings for eSports companies typically fall under two categories: drops and clothing lines. Drops include limited edition pieces that create high-revenue opportunities due to collaborations with well-established brands. For example, American eSports company FazeClan earned US\(2.5 million in 24 hours from just two fashion 'drops' in 2020, and over US\)40 million from overall merchandise sales alone in 2023. Other examples of successful 'drops' are a Fnatic x Gucci watch, a Mkers x Armani Exchange jersey, a Team Liquid x Tokidoki collection, and a Cloud9 x PUMA collection. On the other hand clothing lines in the form of apparel, collectibles, and digital products are fast becoming a vital revenue stream for eSports companies. The top eSports clothing brands include mainstream sportswear companies such as Adidas, Nike, Puma, Hummel, H&M, Under Armour, JD Sports, Champion, FILA, and Kappa. High-end luxury brands such as Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Burberry, Ralph Lauren, Armani Exchange, Dior, and Bulgari, are also making a foray into this market.

## Ticket Sales

Ticket sales from live events represent a small but growing revenue stream in eSports, with major tournaments attracting thousands of fans to iconic venues. The ESL One Hamburg Dota 2 tournament exemplified the earning potential of such events, generating over US$5 million in 2023 from ticket sales, merchandise, and streaming rights, with 15,000 on-site attendees and millions of online viewers. Another example is the national invitation eSports tournament that was held at the Hangzhou Esports Centre in China in May 2023. The venue was filled to 98 percent capacity. According to Newzoo, the global eSports audience is projected to exceed 640 million by 2025, underscoring the growing significance of the industry.