<!-- page 10 -->

TABLE 2

Popular Cross-Platform Games

Source: Company Websites

<table><tr><td>Game</td><td>Publishers</td><td>Genre</td><td>Platform Support</td></tr><tr><td>Among Us</td><td>InnerSloth</td><td>InnerSloth</td><td>Android, iOS, Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4/5, Xbox One/X/S</td></tr><tr><td>Call of Duty: Modern Warfare</td><td>Infinity Ward</td><td>First-person shooter</td><td>PlayStation 3/4, Windows, Xbox 360, Mac OS, Xbox One</td></tr><tr><td>Cuphead</td><td>Studio MDHR</td><td>Run and gun</td><td>PC, Xbox, Console, and Nintendo Switch</td></tr><tr><td>Dead by Daylight</td><td>Behaviour Interactive</td><td>Asymmetric survival horror</td><td>Windows, PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Android, iOS, Stadia, Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 5</td></tr><tr><td>Fortnite</td><td>Epic Games</td><td>Battle royale game, Shooting gameplay</td><td>PC, consoles (PlayStation, Xbox, Nintendo Switch), and mobile devices.</td></tr><tr><td>Forza Horizon 4</td><td>Microsoft Studios</td><td>Open-world racing game</td><td>PC and Xbox</td></tr><tr><td>Hollow Knight</td><td>Team Cherry</td><td>Metroidvana</td><td>Windows, Linux, macOS, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Xbox One</td></tr><tr><td>Minecraft</td><td>Microsoft</td><td>Sandbox, survival</td><td>PC, Console, Mobile, and VR platforms</td></tr><tr><td>PUBG</td><td>PUBG Studios (Krafton)</td><td>Battle royale</td><td>PC, Xbox, Console, mobile versions like PUBG Mobile and BGMI (Battlegrounds Mobile India)</td></tr><tr><td>Rocket League</td><td>Psyonix</td><td>Sports</td><td>PlayStation 4, Windows, Xbox One, macOS, Linux, Nintendo Switch</td></tr><tr><td>Undertale</td><td>Toby Fox</td><td>Role-playing</td><td>Mac OS, Windows, Linux, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Nintendo Switch, Xbox One</td></tr></table>

Game engines are central to cross-platform development, as the right engine can streamline the process and ensure consistent performance across devices. Technologies like Unreal Engine and Unity are leading the charge, empowering developers to create high-quality games that seamlessly run on multiple platforms. Below are the top game engines commonly used to develop cross-platform games.

## Self-Publishing

In June 2012, Dr. Richard Wilson, CEO of the UK trade association TIGA, declared that self-publishing was the future of gaming. Over a decade later, in January 2024, the launch of Palworld, made by Japanese developer Pocketpair, shook the gaming

world by becoming the biggest third-party launch ever on Xbox Game Pass. It spawned a craze for monster taming not witnessed since Pokémon Go, hitting the 25 million player mark in just one month, with 15 million copies selling on Steam alone. It also recouped a huge \(2,300 \%\)of its US\(7 million development budget in just a few weeks after its release and has generated over US\)400 million in overall sales till now. In fact, such is its popularity, that The Pokémon Company said that it would investigate allegations of copyright infringement. Even though these statistics are remarkable independently, what makes the game’s success even more noteworthy is that it was self- published by Pocketpair, an independent studio without a big marketing budget.