<!-- page 16 -->

## Partnerships as Marketing Channels

Gaming studios are increasingly forging alliances with technology companies, brands, and other gaming companies, to strengthen their offerings, reduce development costs, attract new players, and enhance visibility.

A common type of partnership is co-development where two developers or publishers collaborate with each other or with an external vendor, to conceive, develop, and launch a game title. The pooling of resources and expertise results in reduced costs, innovative gaming experiences, and access to other markets.

A common type of partnership is co-development where two developers or publishers collaborate with each other or with an external vendor, to conceive, develop, and launch a game title. The pooling of resources and expertise results in reduced costs, innovative gaming experiences, and access to other markets. The sheer scale of modern big-budget gaming and market saturation has necessitated co-development, even among big studios. A great example of successful co-development is The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt which was produced by CD Projekt Red and Warner Bros. Interactive. The partnership was not only responsible for the game's stunning visuals but also its successful distribution in North America.

Another type is a licensing agreement, typically with a brand, where one company gives the studio the rights to use its intellectual property (IP) or characters, helping it to expand its reach to a non-

endemic audience and monetise its assets. This partnering strategy is particularly useful to combat the stark increase in user acquisition and game development costs. Scopely's Monopoly Go which is based on Hasbro's iconic board game is a fine example of this strategy, generating US\(2 billion in revenue just 10 months after launch.

In 2023, some of the largest and most successful film and TV franchises began as video games. These include The Last of Us, Castlevania: Nocturne, The Super Mario Bros. Movie, Twisted Metal, and Captain Laserhawk: A Blood Dragon Remix. According to a study by Deloitte, the share of theatrical box office revenues from video game IP is expected to double over the period 2023-2025, with most major video streaming services including shows based on games by 2025.

Yet another collaboration type is technology partnerships where studios collaborate with large technology companies such as Amazon, Google, and Microsoft, or smaller gaming technology (Gametech) companies, to integrate cutting-edge solutions into their games. The acquisition of Naughty Dog by Sony in 2001 is probably one the first of such partnerships, giving the former access to Sony's powerful gaming consoles. The 2016 collaboration between game developer Valve and technology company HTC, resulted in the creation of the HTC Vive, a groundbreaking virtual reality (VR) headset that was instrumental in bringing high-quality VR gaming to the masses.