<!-- page 25 -->

Interestingly, the traditional method of batch processing game data is inadequate in today's ultra-competitive gaming industry, with the delay in data collection and analysis leading to missed opportunities. Therefore, gaming companies are resorting to real-time big data analytics which enables them to optimize gameplay, make quick LiveOps decisions, and adopt an overall proactive approach towards retaining players.

These real-time tools also allow non-player characters (NPCs) to evolve and react based on player actions and preferences, thus creating unique experiences. A good example of this is the experimental, narrative-driven game "EcoEcho", which deploys AI-powered NPCs that can interpret the player's input in real-time. Below are other few examples of game developers and publishers using gaming analytics:

## EA

## Electronic Arts

Uses telemetry data which involves tracking every button press, movement, and player decision, to enable a deeper understanding of player engagement, identifying bugs, and optimize game balance. The company also uses machine

learning (ML) algorithms to predict player behaviour, laying the foundation for new game modes and features that are likely to attract new and existing players.

## VALVE

## Valve

The parent company of gaming platform Steam, uses data analytics (gameplay data) to power its Anti-Cheat (VAC) system. The VAC system uses ML models to identify cheating patterns and automatically ban guilty players. Additionally, it also protects player accounts and financial transactions by tracking login patterns, purchase behaviour, and other account activities.

## UBISOFT

## Ubisoft

The producer of games such asassin's Creed and Far Cry, Ubisoft uses clustering algorithms to identify players that are at risk of leaving and target them with personalized retention campaigns. These include exclusive in-game rewards, personalized communication, and special events for high-value players. Moreover, the company uses A/B testing and other analytical techniques to measure the effectiveness of its player retention strategies.