<!-- page 24 -->

## Data-Driven Success

## The Role of Data in Publishing and Marketing

One of the first challenges PeopleFun faced after launching their game Wordscapes was converting free users to paying users and dealing with low Average Revenue Per Paying User (ARPPU). The use of advanced data science techniques revealed that although the game had a large player base, most of the revenue was generated by a small group of players who needed paid assistance to get through the game stages. PeopleFun used this information to increase the difficulty curve in different stages which resulted in more paying customers across varying levels of difficulty.

The company also used data analytics to make incremental changes in pricing for popular items resulting in an increase in in-app Average Revenue per Daily Active User (ARPDAU) from 2c to 10c, a \(400 \%\)increase in daily game revenue. The publisher re- invested this money back in the game to increase the monthly active user base from 10 thousand to 2 million while increasing the average transaction size from US\(2.20 to US\)4.10.

Another example is Electronic Arts (EA) which uses telemetry data, tracking every button press, movement and decision made by players, to generate insights related to player engagement, identifying bugs and optimising game balance. The resultant prediction of player behaviour drives the development of new game modes and features that are likely to resonate with players.

The gaming industry is evolving at a rapid pace, with experiences becoming more complicated, multi-platform, and immersive than ever before. The ability to create seamless and real-time personalized experiences will give companies an advantage over their competitors. AI-powered data analytics have emerged as game changers for publishers,

especially the smaller ones with legacy systems, looking to track player behaviour, consolidate data across platforms, provide high-quality customer support, automate certain processes, and even detect fraud.

The gaming industry is evolving at a rapid pace, with experiences becoming more complicated, multi-platform, and immersive than ever before. The ability to create seamless and real-time personalized experiences will give companies an advantage over their competitors.