<!-- page 6 -->

## Marketing and PR companies branching out into publishing

Historically, the multi-faceted expertise of publishers made it difficult for developers to bypass them and self-publish their games. However, the growing stature of PR and marketing agencies dedicated to the gaming industry and their move into publishing, is proving to be a game changer for indie developers. A good example is UK-based Neonhive which branched out into game publishing after being a solely PR and marketing agency for many years. By leveraging its experience and relationships with the press, influencers, events, and bringing over 130 titles to market, Neonhive is gradually building a supportive publishing ecosystem for indie developers. Another example is the Canadian boutique agency Popagenda which has moved on from handling PR for games such as Cuphead, Grindstone, Landfall, and Ooblets, to functions such as marketing strategy, release management, social media handling, and trailer editing. What is particularly noteworthy here is release management, which includes coordinating with quality assurance teams and porting studios to ship on console and other platforms, areas that have historically been the unique selling points of large publishers.

## The growth of user-generated content (UGC) is challenging traditional publishing models

User-generated content (UGC) is gradually transforming the game publishing landscape. Games such as Minecraft and Fortnite, and platforms such as Roblox have already shown the positive impact that UGC can have on game engagement, longevity, and revenue diversification opportunities. Technologies such as voxels and signed distance fields have made content creation more intuitive and scalable, letting users remix and expand upon existing creations. This player-creator dynamic is challenging conventional publishing models by pushing modern-day publishers to integrate UGC in their marketing and monetisation strategies. A good example is Grand Theft Auto (GTA) VI which is expected to be launched in September 2025. The game is expected to build on GTA V's thriving UGC scene. In fact, its infrastructure is powered by FiveM, a third-party modding framework capable of supporting immersive role-playing servers where over 200,000 players engage daily. Another example is The Sims 5 made by Electronic Arts (EA). Even though the game was shelved towards the end of 2024, its makers had already hired a head of monetisation and marketplace to manage in-game content pricing and UGC, both free and paid.